Add section for RHEL8to9 in-place upgrade using LEAPP (#3070)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_upgrading-project-or-proxy-in-place-using-leapp.adoc

.Prerequisites for Disconnected Environment
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it also meets the following prerequisites:

* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 9 and {Project}.
For more information, see {UpgradingDisconnectedDocURL}Upgrading_satellite_upgrading-disconnected[Upgrading Red Hat Satellite] in _{UpgradingDisconnectedDocTitle}_.
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
* Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.
* For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7030156[How to in-place upgrade an offline / disconnected RHEL 8 machine to RHEL 9 with Leapp?]
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
[NOTE]
====
* {Project} supports DEFAULT and FIPS crypto-policies.
The FUTURE crypto-policy is not supported for {Project} and {SmartProxy} installations.
====

> endif::[]

Reviewer: I need to figure out if this note is still relevant

Reviewer: To elaborate a bit more: The note is technically still correct, we do not support FUTURE policy.
However, I do not think there is a way to change the policy while doing an in-place upgrade, so I don't see a good reason for the note to be here.

Reviewer: @ehelms @ekohl any objections? This is IMHO relevant for fresh installations and general "system requirements", but not here.

I double-checked with Leapp and they do not allow to change the policy during the upgrade, so if the system is on supported policy on EL8 it will be on EL9 too.

Reviewer 2: Sounds correct to me.

Reviewer: So:
```suggestion
```

.Procedure
ifndef::satellite[]
. Configure the repositories to obtain Leapp.
+
Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
----

> Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.

Reviewer: Here we place this note *after* the code block, and in step 3 (Install additional OS specific packages), before it, which looks rather inconsistent to me.

I *personally* prefer the "after the code block" variant, but not sure if there are any styling recommendations for such "only do that if …" additions.

![image](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/assets/94284/5f165731-d0a0-4e8d-b900-9d3291561883)

name=Foreman plugins {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/{ProjectVersion}/el9/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 9 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/9/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello {KatelloVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/katello/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/candlepin/{CandlepinVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-candlepin
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
endif::[]
----

endif::[]
. Let Leapp analyze your system:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----

> endif

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endif::[]
```

ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`), and manually resolve the other reported problems.
+
. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.

> . Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Let Leapp create the upgrade environment
```

ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

. Reboot the system.
+
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

> . Leapp finishes the upgrade, watch it with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade, you can watch the process with:
```

Author: Changed it slightly: used 'monitor' instead of 'watch'.

[id="upgrading-{project-context}-or-proxy-in-place-using-leapp_{context}"]

> = Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL} 9 in-place Using Leapp

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL} 9 in-place by using Leapp
```

----
endif::[]
endif::[]

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions by using `leapp answer`, and manually resolve the other reported problems.
. Run `leapp preupgrade` again and make sure that it does not report any more issues.
. Let Leapp create the upgrade environment:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

. Reboot the system to start the upgrade.
+
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels and then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

. Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade.
. You can monitor the process with `journalctl`:
+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

ifdef::satellite[]

> .. Unlock packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Unlock packages:
```

Otherwise this gets rendered as a sub-item of "leapp_resume":
![image](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/assets/94284/e286f0fe-bcd2-4323-9706-f92023e51a97)

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----
endif::[]
. Verify the post-upgrade state. For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
. Perform post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system. For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
ifdef::satellite[]

> .. Lock packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Lock packages:
```

baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/candlepin/{CandlepinVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-candlepin
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
endif::[]
----

endif::[]
. Let Leapp analyze your system:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions by using `leapp answer`, and manually resolve the other reported problems.

> +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

. Run `leapp preupgrade` again and make sure that it does not report any more issues.
. Let Leapp create the upgrade environment:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

. Reboot the system to start the upgrade.
+
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels and then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

. Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade.
. You can monitor the process with `journalctl`:
+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

ifdef::satellite[]
.. Unlock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----
endif::[]

> . Verify the post-upgrade state. For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 toRHEL{nbsp}9_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify the post-upgrade state. For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
```

. Perform post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system. For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
ifdef::satellite[]
.. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]
. Change SELinux to enforcing mode. For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.

> ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{mode}" == "connected"]
```
This is clearer.

[id="upgrading-{project-context}-or-{smart-proxy-context}-in-place-using-leapp_{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL-abbr} 9 in-place by using Leapp

{Project} and {SmartProxy} are supported on both {EL} 8 and {EL} 9.
You can upgrade your {Project} and {SmartProxy} operating system from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9. 

> When upgrading your {Project} or {SmartProxy} installation from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9, use the Leapp tool to upgrade as well as to help detect and resolve issues that could prevent you from upgrading successfully.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the Leapp tool to upgrade as well as to help detect and resolve issues that could prevent you from upgrading successfully.
```
We're saying this in the previous sentence already.
De-fluff.

.Prerequisites
ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
endif::[]
ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb,katello[]
* Review upgrade warnings before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}[Release notes].
endif::[]
* {Project} {ProjectVersion} or {SmartProxy} {ProjectVersion} running on {EL} 8.
ifndef::satellite[]
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL}{nbsp}9 and {Project}.

> For more information, see xref:Upgrading_satellite_upgrading-disconnected[].

Reviewer 3: It would be better to use the link to the particular section in the Installing disconnected guide as it is done in step 8. of [this procedure](https://theforeman-foreman-documentation-preview-pr-3070.surge.sh/nightly/Upgrading_Project_Disconnected/index-satellite.html#upgrading_a_disconnected_satellite_server_upgrading-disconnected).

By referring the user to the top of this guide, we're not really helping them.

> For more information, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}downloading-the-binary-dvd-images_satellite[Downloading the Binary DVD Images] procedure in _{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}downloading-the-binary-dvd-images_satellite[Downloading the Binary DVD Images] in _{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_. 
```

> For more information, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}downloading-the-binary-dvd-images_satellite[Downloading the Binary DVD Images] procedure in _{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_ 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see {InstallingServerDisconnectedDocURL}downloading-the-binary-dvd-images_satellite[Downloading the Binary DVD Images] procedure in _{InstallingServerDisconnectedDocTitle}_.
```

* Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts.
The required repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.
endif::[]

.Procedure
ifndef::satellite[]
. Enable the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
----
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} installations.
endif::[]
. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {project-package-install} leapp leapp-upgrade-el8toel9
----
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. Add the following lines to `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel9.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]

> name={RepoRHEL9BaseOS}

Reviewer 3: This is false alarm, you can ignore this Vale error.

baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL9AppStream}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/AppStream/
----
.. Add the following lines to `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/

[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Maintenance/
----
endif::[]
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
. Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux, `leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, or `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux).

> See `ID` in `/etc/os-release` for your OS code.

Reviewer 3: But this one is valid.

. Perform post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system.
For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
ifdef::satellite[]
. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]
. Change SELinux to enforcing mode.
For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
ifdef::satellite[]
. Unset the `subscription-manager` release:
endif::[]
ifndef::satellite[]
. For {EL} installations, unset the `subscription-manager` release:
endif::[]
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager release --unset
----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]

> .Additional Resources

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Additional resources
```

> ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
> .Additional resources
> * For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
> * For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7030156[How to in-place upgrade an offline / disconnected RHEL 8 machine to RHEL 9 with Leapp?]
> endif::[]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifndef::orcharhino[]
.Additional resources
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
* For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7030156[How to in-place upgrade an offline / disconnected RHEL 8 machine to RHEL 9 with Leapp?]
endif::[]
endif::[]
```

> [id="upgrading-{project-context}-or-proxy-in-place-using-leapp_{context}"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[id="upgrading-{project-context}-or-{smart-proxy-context}-in-place-using-leapp_{context}"]
```

> = Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL} 9 in-place by using Leapp

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL-abbr} 9 in-place by using Leapp
```
Can we make the title shorter somehow? At least by defining an abbreviation? I'm thinking:
- in `attributes-base.adoc`, define `:EL-abbr: {EL}` (include after `:EL:`)
- in `attributes-satellite.adoc`, define `:EL-abbr: RHEL`

{Project} and {SmartProxy} are supported on both {EL} 8 and {EL} 9.
You can upgrade your {Project} and {SmartProxy} operating system from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9. 
When upgrading your {Project} or {SmartProxy} installation from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9, use the Leapp tool to upgrade as well as to help detect and resolve issues that could prevent you from upgrading successfully.

.Prerequisites
ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
endif::[]

> ifdef::foreman-el,katello[]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb,katello[]
```
https://docs.theforeman.org/3.11/Release_Notes/index-foreman-deb.html

> * Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Review upgrade warnings before you begin an upgrade.
```
There are no "Known Issues" in upstream.

> For more information, see {ReleaseNotesBaseURL}[Release notes].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}[Release notes].
```
Sorry, my bad :)

> For more information, see {BaseURL}Release_Notes/index-katello.html#katello-upgrade-warnings[Upgrade Warnings].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesBaseURL}[Release notes].
```
You can use this attribute as it's [defined for all builds](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/b9e577fb14e7b9f605f24d86dfdddc4d225d4b1f/guides/common/attributes-base.adoc#L18).
Also, because the Upgrade warnings ID depends on the build and isn't consistent with the build, let's just link to RNs as such.

endif::[]
* {Project} {ProjectVersion} or {SmartProxy} {ProjectVersion} running on {EL} 8.
ifndef::satellite[]
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL}{nbsp}9 and {Project}.
For more information, see xref:Upgrading_satellite_upgrading-disconnected[].
* Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts.
The required repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.
endif::[]

.Procedure
ifndef::satellite[]
. Enable the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
----

> Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} installations.
```

> ifdef::foreman-el,katello[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifndef::satellite[]
```
so it also renders for Orcharino

. Configure the repositories to obtain Leapp.
+
Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
----

> `

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.
endif::[]

. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {project-package-install} leapp leapp-upgrade-el8toel9
----
ifdef::satellite[]

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel9.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL9BaseOS}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL9AppStream}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/AppStream/
----
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/

[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Maintenance/
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

> ifdef::foreman-el,katello[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifndef::satellite[]
```
So it also renders for Orcharino

> +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} installations.
```

. Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux, `leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, or `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux).
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.
+

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
```
(otherwise `{}` is not replaced)

# {project-package-install} leapp-data-centos
----
+
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{ProjectVersion}/el9/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/{ProjectVersion}/el9/$basearch

> enabled=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
```

We somehow lost that, but plugins are not signed.

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman

> leapp-puppet7]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[leapp-puppet7]
```

name=Puppet 7 Repository el 9 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello {KatelloVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/katello/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

> [leapp-katello-candlepin]
> name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/candlepin/el9/$basearch/
> gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
> enabled=1
> gpgcheck=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[leapp-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/candlepin/{CandlepinVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-candlepin
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
```

The candlepin repo structure changed, so let's do it like this. Will also require adding a `CandlepinVersion` attribute with `4.4` value for now.

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
endif::[]
----

endif::[]
. Let Leapp analyze your system:
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
Add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
endif::[]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----

> endif::[]

Reviewer: This currently renders wrongly for Satellite.

disconnected:
![image](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/assets/94284/cd432d67-ddc7-4d0f-89cb-338fe1658af5)

connected:
![image](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/assets/94284/08be71a4-45a1-4472-91d6-d605bad16c3b)

I think we should:
* for connected only show the `leapp preupgrade` (exactly like Katello/Foreman)
* for disconnected ONLY show `leapp preupgrade <many options>` (and avoid the "Add the … parameters")

> ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{mode}" == "connected"]
```
It's missing in the output :)

> ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{mode}" == "connected"]
```

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`), and manually resolve the other reported problems.
+

. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.

. Run:
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----

ifdef::satellite[]
+

> If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:

Reviewer: as with `preupgrade`, I think we only should show one way to do it for connected/disconnected and avoid the "if you …" as we have different renderings of the guide

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]

. Reboot the system.
+
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

. Leapp finishes the upgrade, watch it with:
+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

> ifndef::foreman-deb[]

Reviewer: This guide is not rendered for `foreman-deb`, so you can drop this `ifndef` (and the `endif` in line 219)

. Complete these procedures in  _Upgrading from RHEL 8 to RHEL 9_:  
.. Unlock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----

> .. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state of the RHEL 9 system]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state]
```

> For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
```

> .. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL 9 system]
```

We match the chapter headings of what we link to, right?

.. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]

> ifdef::satellite[]

Reviewer: This section also applies to non-Satellite, as the one before, so you can drop the `ifdef` (and `endif` in 228)

> . For {RHEL}-based installations, unset the `subscription-manager` release:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. For {RHEL} installations, unset the `subscription-manager` release:
```
Again, is this just for RHEL or all EL derivatives? If it's for all derivatives, then:
```suggestion
. For {EL} installations, unset the `subscription-manager` release:
```

name=Foreman plugins {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/{ProjectVersion}/el9/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 9 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/9/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello {KatelloVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/katello/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/candlepin/{CandlepinVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-candlepin
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
endif::[]
----

endif::[]
. Let Leapp analyze your system:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----

> endif

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endif::[]
```

@AkshayGadhaveRH I had pushed that earlier today, to fix some rendering issues, but it seems your push has overwritten it. Leaving it uncommitted so you see it ;)

Author: @evgeni whoops, just noticed that :smile:

----
endif::[]
endif::[]

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`), and manually resolve the other reported problems.
+
. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.
. Let Leapp create the upgrade environment:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

. Reboot the system to start the upgrade.
+
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

. Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade, you can monitor the process with:
+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

. Complete these procedures in  _Upgrading from RHEL 8 to RHEL 9_:  

> .. Unlock packages:
> +
> [options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifdef::satellite[]
.. Unlock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----
endif::[]
```

We only lock packages for Satellite, not Foreman/Katello

.. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state]
.. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL 9 system]

> .. Lock packages:
> +
> [options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
> ----
> # {foreman-maintain} packages lock
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifdef::satellite[]
.. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]
```

we only lock things for Satellite, not Foreman/Katello

[id="upgrading-{project-context}-or-proxy-in-place-using-leapp_{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL} 9 in-place by using Leapp

> {Project} and {SmartProxy} are supported on both {EL}8 and {EL}9.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{Project} and {SmartProxy} are supported on both {EL} 8 and {EL} 9.
```

> When upgrading your {Project} or {SmartProxy} installation from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9, use the Leapp tool to help detect and resolve issues that could prevent you from upgrading successfully.

Reviewer 3: - So is Leapp just for a pre-upgrade check or can it be used for the whole upgrade? The conclusion of this sentence doesn't match the module heading. Can you please try to be more precise about the use case?
- Will this also upgrade the Satellite or only the OS?
- Why should the user go with this procedure and not the other ones? Perhaps this is something that should also be addressed in the _Upgrade Paths_?

Author: @Lennonka so Leapp will check for issues as well as upgrade the OS (not the Satellite). I have added this information now.

You can upgrade your {Project} and {SmartProxy} operating system from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9. 
When upgrading your {Project} or {SmartProxy} installation from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9, use the Leapp tool to upgrade as well as to help detect and resolve issues that could prevent you from upgrading successfully.

.Prerequisites
ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].

> endif::[]

Reviewer 3: I would add a similar statement for upstream. There's a section in upstream Release Notes called "Upgrade warnings".

* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]

> If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure you also meet the following prerequisites:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Not needed - the fact that we are in a disconnected env is established by the overall context.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL}{nbsp}9 and {Project}.
For more information, see xref:Upgrading_satellite_upgrading-disconnected[].

> * Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts.
The required repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but have to be delivered over the network from a different machine.
```

> * Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.

Reviewer 3: Do we have a procedure how to set up the repository server on a machine? We should link it here.

Author: I think we can refer to this: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/performing_a_standard_rhel_9_installation/assembly_preparing-for-your-installation_installing-rhel#creating-a-remote-repository_creating-a-remote-repository

endif::[]

.Procedure
ifndef::satellite[]

> . Configure the repositories to obtain Leapp.
> +
> Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Enable the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
```
I think this should suffice.

+
----
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
----

> Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.

Reviewer 3: What does "RHEL-based" mean? Any {EL} distribution? Or just RHEL?

Reviewer: This step is not required on RHEL as RHEL does carry the necessary leapp packages.
On any other distro (CentOS, Rocky, Alma), it is required.

Author: @Lennonka should we keep this as `{RHEL} based`, or should we modify this?

Reviewer 3: Just remove the word "based", otherwise we're good.

endif::[]

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {project-package-install} leapp leapp-upgrade-el8toel9
----
ifdef::satellite[]

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. Add the following lines to `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel9.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL9BaseOS}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL9AppStream}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/AppStream/
----
.. Add the following lines to `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/

[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Maintenance/
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/{ProjectVersion}/el9/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0

[leapp-puppet7]
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 9 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/9/$basearch
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

ifdef::katello[]
[leapp-katello]
name=Katello {KatelloVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/katello/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/candlepin/{CandlepinVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-candlepin
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
endif::[]
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

endif::[]
. Let Leapp analyze your system:

> ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{mode}" == "connected"]
```
Also below.

+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.

> Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions by using `leapp answer`, and manually resolve the other reported problems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions by using `leapp answer`, and manually resolve other reported problems.
```

. Run `leapp preupgrade` again and make sure that it does not report any more issues.
. Let Leapp create the upgrade environment:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Remove unnecessary whitespace. Also below.

. Reboot the system to start the upgrade.
+
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels and then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

. Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade.

> . You can monitor the process with `journalctl`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can monitor the process with `journalctl`:
```
I think this can be a single step squashed with the previous one.

+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

ifdef::satellite[]
. Unlock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----
endif::[]

> . Verify the post-upgrade state. For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify the post-upgrade state.
For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
```
Sentence per line.

> . Perform post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system. For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Perform post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system.
 For more information, see link:{RHELDocBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL{nbsp}9 system] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
```

ifdef::satellite[]
. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]

> . Change SELinux to enforcing mode. For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Change SELinux to enforcing mode.
 For more information, see link:{RHELDocsBaseURL}9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in _Upgrading from RHEL{nbsp}8 to RHEL{nbsp}9_.
```

> ifeval::["{mode}" != "connected"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
```

[id="upgrading-{project-context}-or-proxy-in-place-using-leapp_{context}"]
= Upgrading {Project} or {SmartProxy} to {EL} 9 In-Place Using Leapp

> Use this procedure to upgrade your {Project} or {SmartProxy} installation from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9.

Reviewer 4: Let's try to make the introduction a bit more descriptive while also removing self-referential language ("this procedure").

```suggestion
When upgrading your {Project} or {SmartProxy} installation from {EL} 8 to {EL} 9, use the Leapp tool to help detect and resolve issues that could prevent you from upgrading successfully.
```

Feel free to modify or expand my suggestion. The main point is to avoid duplicating the procedure heading and instead give users an idea of what we will be asking from them in the procedure.

.Prerequisites

> * {Project} {ProjectVersion} or {SmartProxy} {ProjectVersion} running on {EL} 8.
> ifdef::satellite[]
> * Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
> For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
> endif::[]
> ifndef::satellite[]
> * Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
> endif::[]

Reviewer 4: Ideally, list items should use parallel sentence structure (for example, if one item uses imperative voice, all should use imperative voice). I don't see a reasonable way of achieving this here, so I suggest to at least move the non-parallel item to the beginning of the list (it also looks like the most important one so it should really be mentioned first).

```suggestion
ifdef::satellite[]
* Review Known Issues before you begin an upgrade.
For more information, see {ReleaseNotesDocURL}ref_known-issues_assembly_introducing-red-hat-satellite[Known Issues in {ProjectName} {ProjectVersion}].
endif::[]
* {Project} {ProjectVersion} or {SmartProxy} {ProjectVersion} running on {EL} 8.
ifndef::satellite[]
* Access to available repositories or a local mirror of repositories.
endif::[]
```

And let me add that I absolutely LOVE the idea to add reviewing known issues as a prerequisite.

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]

> .Prerequisites for Disconnected Environment

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it also meets the following prerequisites:

Reviewer 4: The first prereq starts with "You require" so it feels weird to introduce the list talking about a different subject.
```suggestion
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure you also meet the following prerequisites:
```

* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.

> Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 9 and {Project}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL}{nbsp}9 and {Project}.
```

For more information, see {UpgradingDisconnectedDocURL}Upgrading_satellite_upgrading-disconnected[Upgrading Red Hat Satellite] in _{UpgradingDisconnectedDocTitle}_.
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
* Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.

> * For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7030156[How to in-place upgrade an offline / disconnected RHEL 8 machine to RHEL 9 with Leapp?]

Reviewer 4: These are not prerequisites. Prerequisites are actions users must take before following a procedure. So, for example:

* Customize the Leapp upgrade for your environment.
* Deliver the repositories from a locally mounted ISO.

Lines 23 and 25 look like they should be included as `.Additional resources` at the end of this module. For line 24, I'm not sure -- IIUC you might actually want to merge it with the prerequisite on line 20.

Author: Working on this.

endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
[NOTE]
====
* {Project} supports DEFAULT and FIPS crypto-policies.
The FUTURE crypto-policy is not supported for {Project} and {SmartProxy} installations.
====
endif::[]

.Procedure
ifndef::satellite[]
. Configure the repositories to obtain Leapp.
+
Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
----
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.
endif::[]

. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {project-package-install} leapp leapp-upgrade-el8toel9
----
ifdef::satellite[]

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:

> .. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel9.repo`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. Add the following lines to `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel9.repo`:
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL9BaseOS}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL9AppStream}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/AppStream/
----

> .. `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. Add the following lines to `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/

[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Maintenance/
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

ifndef::satellite[]

> . Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux, `leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, or `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux).

Reviewer 2: I'm always tempted to go for a complex solution like using `$ID` from `/etc/os-release`. Perhaps we can at least give the hint?
```suggestion
. Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux, `leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, or `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux).
See `ID` in `/etc/os-release` for your OS code.
```

Author: Working on this.

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # {project-package-install} leapp-data-centos

Reviewer 2: Or the complex solution:
```suggestion
# . /etc/os-release
# {project-package-install} leapp-data-$ID
```

----
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.
+
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman {ProjectVersion}

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{ProjectVersion}/el9/$basearch

Reviewer 2: @evgeni If we used `$releasever` instead of `el9`, could we avoid the need for these explicit repo files?

Reviewer: No, as that can also be 8.10 or 9.4 and break things

Reviewer: (and leapp does set it to `9.4` explicitly, as it only supports RHEL-based versioning)

Reviewer 2: But `$releasever_major` is also available. Wouldn't that work? https://dnf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/conf_ref.html#repo-variables-label doesn't mention when it was introduced.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-packaging/pull/10951 let's test that theory.

Reviewer: https://github.com/rpm-software-management/dnf/blob/master/doc/release_notes.rst says 4.18, while EL9 has 4.14 ;)

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/candlepin/{CandlepinVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-candlepin
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el9/$basearch/
gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
endif::[]
----

endif::[]
. Let Leapp analyze your system:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

+
The first run will most likely report issues and inhibit the upgrade.

> Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`), and manually resolve the other reported problems.

Reviewer 4: We shouldn't use parentheses, so I suggest:

```suggestion
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions by using `leapp answer`, and manually resolve the other reported problems.
```

+

> . Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.

Reviewer 4: How? :) If there is an actual command to run, please include it. If this is more about making sure all issues from the previous steps have been addressed, you don't need this line.

Alternatively, you can start line 170 with something like "After you have resolved all issues reported by `leapp preupgrade`, let Leapp create the upgrade environment:".

Reviewer: Yeah, essentially, what the user needs to do is to run `leapp preupgrade` until it does not report anything bad with the system (the bad can differ quite a lot depending on the system, so it's not useful to give any further "how" guidance here besides "read the report").

I like the "After resolved, create env" suggestion!

Reviewer 4: > what the user needs to do is to run `leapp preupgrade` until it does not report anything bad 

That could actually work quite nicely too: ". Run `leapp preupgrade` again to make sure it does not report any more issues." In which case line 170 could stay as it is now.

I don't have a preference myself, so I'd say Akshay can choose whichever he prefers.

. Let Leapp create the upgrade environment:
ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

. Reboot the system to start the upgrade.
+

> After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, and then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.
```

> . Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade, you can monitor the process with:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Wait for Leapp to finish the upgrade.
You can monitor the process with `journalctl`:
```

+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

. Complete these procedures in  _Upgrading from RHEL 8 to RHEL 9_:  
ifdef::satellite[]
.. Unlock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----
endif::[]

> .. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state]
> .. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL 9 system]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. {RHDocsBaseURL}red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Verifying the post-upgrade state]
.. {RHDocsBaseURL}red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-on-the-rhel-9-system_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9[Performing post-upgrade tasks on the RHEL 9 system]
```

ifdef::satellite[]
.. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]

> . Complete the steps for changing SELinux to enforcing mode described in https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in the _Upgrading from RHEL 8 to RHEL 9_ guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Complete the steps for changing SELinux to enforcing mode described in {RHDocsBaseURL}red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/upgrading_from_rhel_8_to_rhel_9/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-8-to-rhel-9#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in the _Upgrading from RHEL 8 to RHEL 9_ guide.
```

ifeval::["{mode}" != "disconnected"]
. Unset the `subscription-manager` release:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager release --unset
----
ifndef::satellite[]
Note that this is only required for {RHEL} based installations.

> endif::[]

Reviewer 4: There are a couple more instances of "Note that" in this PR. Please have a look at them as well.

> endif::[]

Reviewer: I am always a bit hesitant to use `if` in the first line, as that makes finding steps across different guide builds harder, but I do agree this is better readable for the user!

.Prerequisites for Disconnected Environment
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, ensure it also meets the following prerequisites:

* You require access to {RHEL} and {Project} packages.
Obtain the ISO files for {RHEL} 9 and {Project}.
For more information, see {UpgradingDisconnectedDocURL}Upgrading_satellite_upgrading-disconnected[Upgrading Red Hat Satellite] in _{UpgradingDisconnectedDocTitle}_.
* For more information on customizing the Leapp upgrade for your environment, see https://access.redhat.com/articles/4977891[Customizing your {RHEL} in-place upgrade].
* Since Leapp completes part of the upgrade in a container that has no access to additional ISO mounts, the repositories cannot be served from a locally mounted ISO but must be delivered over the network from a different machine.
* For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7030156[How to in-place upgrade an offline / disconnected RHEL 8 machine to RHEL 9 with Leapp?]
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]
[NOTE]
====
* {Project} supports DEFAULT and FIPS crypto-policies.
The FUTURE crypto-policy is not supported for {Project} and {SmartProxy} installations.
====
endif::[]

.Procedure

> . Configure the repositories to obtain Leapp.
> ifdef::foreman-el,katello[]

Reviewer: This step is not required for Satellite (and no idea about Orcharino)
```suggestion
ifdef::foreman-el,katello[]
. Configure the repositories to obtain Leapp.
```

+
On CentOS, configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----

> # curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-8/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-8.repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# dnf copr enable @theforeman/leapp
```

that's much nicer (EL7 couldn't do that)

> On CentOS, configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
> +
> ----
> # curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-8/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-8.repo
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/[@theforeman/leapp COPR Repository], which contains Leapp packages with patches to support {Project} or {SmartProxy} upgrades:
+
----
# curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/theforeman-leapp.repo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/g/theforeman/leapp/repo/epel-8/group_theforeman-leapp-epel-8.repo
----

Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.
```

endif::[]

. Install required packages:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
+
----
# {project-package-install} leapp leapp-upgrade-el8toel9
----
ifdef::satellite[]

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
. Set up the following repositories to perform the upgrade in a disconnected environment:
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/rhel9.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[BaseOS]
name={RepoRHEL9BaseOS}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/BaseOS/

[AppStream]
name={RepoRHEL9AppStream}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/rhel9/AppStream/
----
.. `/etc/yum.repos.d/{project-context}.repo:`
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Satellite/

[{RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}]
name={RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
baseurl=http://_server.example.com_/sat6/Maintenance/
----
endif::[]
endif::[]

> ifdef::foreman-el,katello[]

Reviewer: This `ifdef` seems not closed anywhere, so that steps "Let Leapp analyze your system" and later are not rendered for Satellite at all

. Install additional OS specific packages (`leapp-data-almalinux` for AlmaLinux, `leapp-data-centos` for CentOS Stream, or `leapp-data-rocky` for Rocky Linux).
Note that this is not required for {RHEL} based installations.
+
----
# yum install leapp-data-centos
----
+
. Add {Project} specific repositories to `/etc/leapp/files/leapp_upgrade_repositories.repo`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[leapp-foreman]
name=Foreman {ProjectVersion}

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{ProjectVersion}/el8/$basearch

Reviewer: all `el8` in this block needs to be replaced by `el9`

gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1

> module_hotfixes=1

Reviewer: all `module_hotfixes=1` from this block can be removed.

> ifdef::katello[]

Reviewer: can we move that `ifdef::katello…endif` block (here until line 128) to the end of the file, it'll render nicer then with the empty lines

[leapp-katello]
name=Katello {KatelloVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/katello/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-katello-candlepin]
name=Candlepin: an open source entitlement management system.
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/katello/{KatelloVersion}/candlepin/el8/$basearch/
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1

[leapp-pulpcore]
name=pulpcore: Fetch, Upload, Organize, and Distribute Software Packages.

> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/el8/$basearch/

Author: Hey @evgeni is this correct/relevant? The {PulpcoreVersion} attribute no longer exists. If needed, should we can probably reinstate it.

Reviewer: Yeah, please add it and set it to `3.49`

gpgkey=https://yum.theforeman.org/pulpcore/{PulpcoreVersion}/GPG-RPM-KEY-pulpcore
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
module_hotfixes=1
endif::[]

[leapp-foreman-plugins]
name=Foreman plugins {ProjectVersion}
baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/plugins/{ProjectVersion}/el8/$basearch
enabled=1
gpgcheck=0
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman
module_hotfixes=1

> [leapp-foreman-client]
> name=Foreman client {ProjectVersion}
> baseurl=https://yum.theforeman.org/client/{ProjectVersion}/el8/$basearch
> enabled=1
> gpgcheck=1
> gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman-client
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

we don't need the client repo

[leapp-puppet7]

> name=Puppet 7 Repository el 8 - $basearch
> baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/8/$basearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name=Puppet 7 Repository el 9 - $basearch
baseurl=http://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppet7/el/9/$basearch
```

> gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-puppet7-release
>        file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-2025-04-06-puppet7-release
```
the other key is gone

enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
----

> * You need a Puppet repository for the Puppet agent that the installer is using.
> 

Reviewer: We only support Puppet 7 these days, so we can drop this line.
```suggestion
```

> . We do not support {EL} 9 installations with EPEL 9 enabled, so remove `epel-release`:

Reviewer: Neither do we on EL8, so IMHO this step can be removed. (This was different on EL7 where we used EPEL).

@ehelms @ekohl do you agree?

+

> ----
> # yum remove epel-release
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-remove} epel-release
----
```

+
----
# leapp preupgrade
----
ifdef::satellite[]
+
ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
Add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
endif::[]
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp preupgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]

+
The first run is expected to fail but report issues and inhibit the upgrade.
Examine the report in the `/var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt` file, answer all questions (using `leapp answer`), and manually resolve the other reported problems.
+

. Ensure `leapp preupgrade` has no issues.

. Run:
+
----
# leapp upgrade
----

ifdef::satellite[]
+
If you run {Project} in a disconnected environment, add the `--no-rhsm` and `--enablerepo` parameters:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# leapp upgrade \
--no-rhsm \
--enablerepo BaseOS \
--enablerepo AppStream \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteServerProjectVersion} \
--enablerepo {RepoRHEL9ServerSatelliteMaintenanceProjectVersion}
----
endif::[]

. Reboot the system.
+

> After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final {EL} 8 system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the system reboots, a live system conducts the upgrade, reboots to fix SELinux labels, then reboots into the final {EL} 9 system.
```

. Leapp finishes the upgrade, watch it with:
+
----
# journalctl -u leapp_resume -f
----

ifdef::satellite[]
. Complete these procedures in  _Upgrading from RHEL 8 to RHEL 9_:  
.. Unlock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----
.. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/upgrading_from_rhel_7_to_rhel_8/verifying-the-post-upgrade-state-of-the-rhel-8-system_upgrading-from-rhel-7-to-rhel-8[Verifying the post-upgrade state of the RHEL 8 system]

> .. https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/upgrading_from_rhel_7_to_rhel_8/performing-post-upgrade-tasks-rhel-7-to-rhel-8_upgrading-from-rhel-7-to-rhel-8[Performing post-upgrade tasks]

Reviewer: these links still point to 7to8 docs, not 8to9

.. Lock packages:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----
endif::[]
ifdef::satellite[]

> . Complete the steps for changing SELinux to enforcing mode described in https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/upgrading_from_rhel_7_to_rhel_8/applying-security-policies_upgrading-from-rhel-7-to-rhel-8#changing-selinux-mode-to-enforcing_applying-security-policies[Changing SELinux mode to enforcing] in the _Upgrading from RHEL 7 to RHEL 8_ guide.

Reviewer: also needs to be updated to the 8to9 version of the docs

. Unset the `subscription-manager` release:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# subscription-manager release --unset
----
endif::[]

> ifndef::satellite[]
> [NOTE]
> ====
> If you install the system and need to use `--disable-system-checks`, the last step of the upgrade is going to fail, and you need to call `{foreman-installer} --disable-system-checks` manually once the system reboots.
> ====
> endif::[]

Reviewer: `--disable-system-checks` is not a thing anymore.
```suggestion
```
